Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a sci-fi thriller
film called “Limitless.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Eddie Morra is an aspiring writer living in
New York.
For the past several months, he’s been living
off of a book contract advance and financial
support from his girlfriend.
The only problem is that he hasn’t written
a single word of his book.
He struggles writing his story, going through
a continuous cycle of writing, deleting, and
starting over.
He spends his afternoons drinking at a bar
or wasting away on his couch in a messy apartment.
Eddie’s fiance, Lindy, decides to end their
relationship as she sees Eddie incapable of
straightening out his life.
Lindy says she hasn’t seen any progress
on Eddie’s part, and with her career taking
a big step forward, she can’t afford to
be taking care of Eddie all the time.
Eddie says he loves her, and he wants to spend
the rest of his life with her, but Lindy leaves.
While walking home, a man, Vernon, calls out
to him.
Vernon is Eddie’s ex-wife’s brother.
Eddie had a short-lived marriage with his
college sweetheart, Melissa.
Eddie remembers Vernon as Melissa’s drug-dealing
little brother, but Vernon says those days
are behind him.
Vernon invites Eddie for a drink at a bar
and quizzes him, asking for updates about
his life.
Vernon says Melissa has remarried and has
two kids of her own now, and Eddie tells him
he's trying to write a book and admits he's
having a hard time starting it.
Vernon sees Eddie having creative problems
and offers help.
He takes out a small pill and offers it to
Eddie.
Eddie refuses, saying Vernon is still dealing.
Vernon says the drug is legal, already finished
with lab tests, approval from the food and
drug administration, and will be sold the
following year.
He has early access to it as he works for
the pharmaceutical company that makes it,
calling it N.Z.T.
Eddie is unconvinced, saying he knows a designer
drug when he sees one.
Regardless, Eddie is interested, and Vernon
says the pill helps unlock formant receptors
in the brain, allowing them to use 100% of
their brainpower.
Vernon gets an urgent phone call and tells
Eddie he'd love to meet up some other time,
handing Eddie his card.
Eddie refuses the pill, but Vernon insists,
saying a single tablet costs $800.
On his way home, Eddie contemplates his life.
Thinking he's already at his low point, he
takes the N.Z.T., reasoning out that his life
couldn't get any worse.
He runs into his landlord's wife on his way
up, and she cusses him out for being late
on his rent.
She shouts at Eddie, saying he'll never amount
to anything and that he'd soon be homeless.
Eddie has lost focus on what the lady is saying
as the N.Z.T. is taking effect.
He feels dizzy, and the drug's effect finally
hits.
He sees the lady’s bag and in it, a book
about law.
Eddie deducts that the lady dislikes him,
but something else must be bothering her.
He asks about law school, and the lady is
surprised how Eddie knows about her studying
law.
Eddie recalls seeing the book once several
years ago in a dorm room when he was still
in college.
Somehow, he now remembers everything he’s
ever read, seen, and heard in his entire life.
Eddie then recommends a different book on
the law that would be more appropriate for
her assignment and continues advising her
about how she could proceed with her assignment.
The lady is impressed, even attracted, by
Eddie's sudden mastery of law and court.
She invites her in, he helps with her assignment,
and they eventually have intercourse.
Eddie is perplexed as to how he suddenly has
all of this knowledge.
He realizes that he always had this knowledge,
just in a random mess in his head.
The N.Z.T. must have helped his brain rearrange
and analyze the pieces of information he has
in his head and turned them into a congruent
and organized thought that he now has complete
access to.
Every documentary, every magazine article,
every movie, every commercial, anything he's
ever read and seen has now been turned into
an accessible stream of information.
He heads back to his dirty apartment and starts
cleaning.
He starts writing and ends up with a 90-page
preliminary manuscript.
The N.Z.T. not only gave him superior knowledge
but also gave him a boost in motivation.
The following day, he feels the N.Z.T.'s effects
had worn off.
He takes his manuscript to his editor.
The editor is doubtful but reads it anyway.
When Eddie reaches home, he receives voice
messages from his editor praising him.
Eddie then decides he'd need more N.Z.T. and
heads to Vernon's apartment.
Eddie shows up at Vernon's apartment, and
Vernon immediately knows what Eddie wants.
Eddie sees Vernon has bruises and scratches
on his face and asks him what happened, but
Vernon avoids answering.
Vernon then reveals that he lied about the
N.Z.T. being legal and approved by the F.D.A.
Regardless, Eddie still wants more.
Vernon asks Eddie to head out to do some chores,
and Eddie complies, thinking he'd do what's
necessary to get more N.Z.T.
He arrives back at the apartment and sees
the door busted open.
He sees Vernon's apartment had been ransacked
and Vernon on the couch with a bullet hole
on his head.
Eddie calls the police but realizes he needs
to find Vernon's N.Z.T. stash before the cops
arrive.
He finds a pack of N.Z.T. along with Vernon's
list of clients and cash.
At the police station, Eddie is interviewed
and gets a phone call from Melissa.
The police then tell Eddie they’ll stay
in contact.
At home, Eddie takes another pill and his
creative juices start flowing.
With Vernon’s cash, Eddie gets a haircut
and new clothes.
He starts getting in shape and even finishes
his book in four days.
He learns to play the piano in three days
and notices he can learn any language by listening
to it.
Eddie becomes outgoing, meeting new people
and impressing everyone with his mastery of
almost any field.
He becomes daring, his shyness gone, and he
feels like he could achieve anything he ever
wanted.
Eddie gets a realization and suddenly knows
what he needs to do.
He’d delve into the world of stock trading.
He meets Kevin, a broker working in Wallstreet,
and he becomes Eddie's entry point into the
world of stocks.
Eddie starts reading books on stock trading
and monitors the stock market for movement.
With N.Z.T., he grew Vernon's remaining $800
to $2,000 in a day.
The next day, it reaches $7,500.
Eddie needs more capital for more growth and
decides to seek help from a loan shark, Gennady.
Gennady decides to give Eddie the loan but
warns that he must be paid on time, or else
something terrible would happen to Eddie.
Eddie accepts the risk, confident that he
would pay Gennady back in no time.
The following day, Eddie heads to Kevin's
brokerage firm and starts buying and selling
stocks.
Within two weeks, Eddie increased his brokerage
account to over two million dollars.
Word starts getting around, and soon, Kevin
calls him to say that a Wallstreet tycoon
wants to meet with him.
That evening, Eddie has dinner with Lindy,
and he tells her all about the good things
he’s been doing with his life.
Seeing Eddie clean up his act, Lindy is proud,
and Eddie tells her he just got a sudden wake-up
call and decided to get his life together.
After dinner, they head back to Lindy’s
place and make love.
Over the next couple of days, the couple rediscovers
their love, and soon, Lindy tells Eddie that
she wants to be together with him again.
As they talk about restarting their relationship,
Eddie spots a man eyeing him from a distance.
Later that night, Eddie stares out the window,
looking to see if he’d spot the man but
sees nothing.
Lindy is in bed asking him to join her, but
Eddie stumbles, and he’s transported to
the hallway in an instant.
Eddie has no recollection of how he got out
of his apartment, but Lindy sees him and asks
him to go inside for a meal.
The following day, Kevin joins Eddie for their
meeting with the Wallstreet giant.
Kevin is nervous, but Eddie assures him that
the meeting would be fine.
Carl Van Loon, a Wallstreet icon, arrives,
and they start talking.
Carl’s companion is suspicious of Eddie
and how he climbed up the ladder so fast,
thinking it’s a con, but Eddie talks his
way through his questioning and impresses
Carl.
On a car ride home, Carl hands Eddie a stack
of papers about the companies he owns and
asks Eddie to take a look and to analyze a
pattern and asks him what a good move would
be.
Eddie takes a thorough look and realizes that
Carl must be planning a massive merger with
a competing company.
Carl is impressed even further, noticing how
nobody could have figured that out in such
short of a time.
Carl gives Eddie a chance to restructure the
deals between the companies and asks Eddie
to meet him the following day.
Eddie takes the challenge and exits Carl’s
limousine but decides he doesn’t want to
go home.
He instead starts walking, wanting to take
as much information as he can.
Still, he finds himself having episodes of
unconsciousness, finding himself in different
parts of the city, and having no recollection
of how he got there.
He stumbles into several parties, into different
clubs, meeting different women, and eventually
ending up in a hotel room with a model where
they have intercourse.
Unbeknownst to Eddie, the strange man he had
seen earlier is following him.
After leaving the hotel, Eddie heads to the
subway, where he runs into a group of thugs
and gets into a fight.
The N.Z.T. helps him remember every self-defense
video, action movie, fight scene, and survival
documentary he's ever seen, and he manages
to fight off the group of thugs singlehandedly.
He starts running afterward and finds himself
atop the Brooklyn bridge by dawn with no recollection
of what happened to him in the past 18 hours.
He heads home and gets to bed but is awakened
by his alarm, reminding him about the meeting
with Carl.
Afraid that he might run into another episode
of amnesia, Eddie decides not to take an N.Z.T.
pill.
He looks through the files that Carl sent
him but finds that he can't understand the
data.
Kevin calls, and Eddie tells him he needs
to postpone the meeting, but Kevin says he'll
never get another chance if he cancels now.
Eddie arrives at the meeting without taking
N.Z.T., and he's noticeably less focused,
dizzy, and even has trouble speaking.
Carl notices Eddie is out of focus and asks
him about Hank Atwood, the competing businessman
he intended to merge with.
Carl says Atwood was a nobody and had a meteoric
rise in the world of stock trading.
Carl is perplexed about how Atwood had such
a steep rise, now ready to go toe-to-toe with
him.
Eddie doesn’t focus on Carl and instead
fixes his gaze on the television where he
sees a new report of a woman who had been
found dead at the hotel, the same woman he
was with the night before.
Eddie loses all focus and excuses himself
from Carl.
He heads out and starts vomiting, his stomach
churning at the thought that he may have killed
someone.
He heads home and gets a call from Melissa,
who is asking questions about Vernon's death.
Eddie asks her if they could meet up somewhere,
and Melissa reluctantly agrees.
Eddie goes through Vernon's notebook at a
park, looking up Vernon's clients and calling
them to find out more about the effects of
N.Z.T.
Each number he calls, he gets an answer saying
the person had died.
Each of them had experienced severe headaches,
vomiting, and some even fell into a coma.
Still, they all ended up dead.
He dials another number, and a man behind
Eddie had his phone ringing.
He answers, and Eddie hears his voice from
the other line.
Eddie recognizes him as the man who was spying
on him.
It’s the same man who had followed Eddie
and the model to the hotel.
Eddie starts running, and the man follows
him.
Eddie runs through the streets swerving through
traffic.
He finally makes his way into a taxi cab to
the meeting place with Melissa.
Melissa tells Eddie that Vernon's death didn't
surprise her and says she knows about the
N.Z.T.
She took it too but soon decided to get off
of it.
Having the brain function at a prolonged high
level of mental activity would result in mental
fatigue and burnout.
She got scared and stopped taking N.Z.T.
Suddenly, she felt lazy, unfocused, and had
problems maintaining her job.
Two years have passed, and the after-effects
still haven't worn off.
She recommends that Eddie stop taking the
pill too but tells him to lower the dosage
as a sudden stop would be lethal.
Eddie heads home but runs into Gennady.
Gennady beats up Eddie and demands his payment.
They stumble their way up Eddie's apartment,
and Eddie drops an N.Z.T. pill.
Gennady picks up the pill, believing it to
be some kind of drug, and takes it himself.
They then head to the bank, and Eddie gives
him the money.
Gennady notes that the pill made him feel
excellent, and he'd be asking for more soon.
Eddie makes his way to Lindy’s office and
collapses.
Eddie is left with no choice but to tell Lindy
everything.
Lindy finally understands the source of Eddie’s
newfound motivation and agrees to retrieve
the pills for him.
She heads home, takes the rest of the drugs,
and heads back.
On her way back, she sees the man following
him.
She runs into the city park and asks two men
to help her, but the pursuer stabs both men
and continues chasing after Lindy.
Lindy hides behind some boulders and calls
Eddie.
Eddie advises her to take one of the pills
as it would give her the power to overcome
the situation, and she does.
After the pill takes effect, she knows what
she has to do to escape from the man chasing
her.
She runs into the ice skating rink and carries
a child, spinning her around and allowing
the child’s ice skates to slice the man’s
face.
The man falls, and Lindy gets away.
The following day, Lindy expresses her concerns
about the pill, saying it turned her into
a completely different person.
Eddie promises he’ll stop taking the pill
as soon as he gets enough money.
On the street, Eddie sees Gennady spying on
him.
Eddie approaches, and Gennady says he needs
more of the pill.
Eddie gives him a few but realizes Gennady
won't stop.
Eddie hires two bodyguards, thinking he'd
need security with him at all times.
He meets with Carl again and apologizes for
how he behaved earlier, saying he was just
sick.
Carl is unimpressed with Eddie’s apology
but says he has seen the projections Eddie
had sent and is once again impressed.
Soon, Eddie would broker what he calls the
biggest merger in corporate history between
Carl Van Loon and Hank Atwood.
Eddie discovers that if he slept properly,
stayed hydrated and fed, abstained from alcohol,
and maintained a steady dose, the blackout
episodes stopped.
He has suits custom-made for him, all with
a hidden pocket for all the N.Z.T. he has.
He finds a chemist and asks him to reverse
engineer the pill, hoping to make more of
his own.
While having lunch, he spots the detective
that interviewed him about Vernon’s death.
The detective informs him that Eddie is now
a suspect in the model’s death as one eye
witness placed him at the crime scene.
Eddie hires Morris Brandt, one of the best
and most ruthless lawyers in New York.
Brandt gets him walking free temporarily,
saying the evidence the police had is too
weak.
Carl and Eddie meet with Atwood again, and
they observe Atwood’s deteriorating health,
and Eddie notes that Atwood isn’t even over
the age of 60.
Eddie heads back to his hotel room and finds
someone had broken in and, he assumes, is
looking for the N.Z.T.
Security is now a primary concern, so he decides
to buy a luxurious penthouse apartment with
a top-of-the-notch security system.
Later, Eddie runs into Gennady, who now has
his own set of thugs guarding him.
Eddie recognizes that Gennady, too, must be
taking the pill.
Gennady demands twenty more pills and blackmails
Eddie with the model’s death.
The following day, the contract signing with
Atwood is scheduled, but Carl is worried as
Atwood is late.
Atwood’s wife arrives later and tells them
her husband had suffered pain and dizziness
and is currently hospitalized.
She makes clear that they still want to proceed
with the contract as soon as Atwood is able.
They walk her down, and Eddie sees her driver
is the man who had been stalking him.
Eddie joins Brandt at the police station that
afternoon, where Eddie has to enter a police
lineup.
Eddie takes his jacket off and hands it to
Brandt.
After the lineup, he meets up with Brandt
again, and he tells him that Eddie is cleared
of suspicion.
Brandt then compliments Eddie's suit jacket.
He makes his way back to Carl’s office and
discovers Atwood is now in a coma.
He heads to the bathroom to take another pill
and discovers his secret pocket is empty.
His stash is gone.
He goes back to Carl, and a package is brought
to him.
He opens it and sees his disembodied bodyguards’
hands inside.
In shock, he runs out of Carl’s office and
hurries home.
He watches a news report regarding updates
on Atwood’s situation and sees that Brandt
is also Atwood’s attorney.
He finally understands and couldn’t help
himself from laughing.
Eddie then hears banging at his door and notices
from the surveillance cameras that Gennady
had arrived with his goons, using metal grinders
and steel cutters to break in.
Stuck in an inescapable situation, Eddie steps
up to the balcony, readying himself to jump.
As his foot slips, he stops himself, trying
to remember if he had left even just a single
tablet somewhere.
He digs through his mind and recalls one being
left in his old tin container.
He searches through the boxes and finds it,
but Gennady breaks in, and Eddies trips on
a box, losing the pill.
Gennady's goons pin Eddie down, and Gennady
shows Eddie an even better way of using N.Z.T.
He dissolves it and injects it directly into
his bloodstream.
He says it's more potent this way and even
lasts longer.
Eddie looks around at his assailants and notices
one of them has a blind eye.
Gennady takes out several medical instruments,
including knives, blades, and pliers, intending
to torture Eddie into giving him more N.Z.T.
The henchmen start grinding into the safe
in the next room while Gennady approaches
Eddie, but Eddie stabs him with a knife he
had earlier concealed.
The two struggle and Eddie drives the blade
into Gennady, killing him.
Eddie lays on the floor next to a bleeding
Gennady.
He eyes the needle Gennady had used to inject
the N.Z.T. and decides to drink Gennady's
blood, hoping to get some of the N.Z.T. into
him.
It works, and his brain starts working at
total capacity.
He lays on the floor and waits for the half-blind
henchman to come back.
As the henchman flips Eddie over, he spits
out the syringe needle directly into the man's
seeing eye, blinding him completely.
The other henchman runs in, but Eddie outsmarts
them, hiding in a room and using a T.V. to
bash his pursuant's head.
Eddie runs, but a henchman catches up to him,
choking him.
Eddie kicks him off, and the blind henchman
shoots the other henchman by accident.
The blind henchman then starts firing his
gun, hoping to hit Eddie, but Eddie manages
to disable him by pushing the man into a window
using a piano.
At the hospital, Hank Atwood dies.
Eddie appears at the hospital and sits next
to the driver.
He wonders how Atwood died even though they
successfully got the N.Z.T. pills for him.
The driver then helps Eddie find Brandt, finding
out that Brandt had kept the pills for himself
rather than give them to Atwood.
They find the drugs in Brandt's closet.
Several years pass, and Eddie is now running
for governor.
He gets a call that a man representing a large
pharmaceutical firm is waiting for him in
his office.
Eddie is surprised to see that the man is
Carl.
Carl tells Eddie he left Wallstreet a while
back and is now in the pharmaceutical industry.
Carl reveals that he now knows about N.Z.T.,
telling Eddie that the company he owns manufactures
the drug.
Carl offers Eddie a steady supply of N.Z.T.
in exchange for a few favors he would later
ask.
Eddie refuses Carl's offer, but Carl warns
that the illegal N.Z.T. labs have all been
shut down, telling Eddie that they alone manufacture
the N.Z.T. now.
Eddie then reveals that he doesn't take N.Z.T.
anymore.
He had the drug tweaked and edited a while
back, removing the side effects.
He slowly took less and less N.Z.T. until
he no longer depended on it, but the effects
of the drug remained permanent on him.
The modified N.Z.T. had permanently altered
his brain patterns, and now, Eddie's brain
is fully unlocked even off the drug,
Eddie shows this by predicting a van would
hit a car because the driver is distracted.
Carl looks over, and it happens.
Eddie then places his hand on Carl’s chest,
saying he detects several problems with Carl’s
heart.
Carl warns Eddie that he would be a brutal
enemy, but Eddie is not threatened, saying
he’d always be fifty steps ahead of him.